README.md, before:

<div align = "right">
<a href="docs/readme/README.zh-cn.md">简体中文(待更新)</a>
</div>

# RMCP
[![Crates.io Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/rmcp)](https://crates.io/crates/rmcp)
<!-- ![Release status](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg) -->
<!-- [![docs.rs](todo)](todo) -->
![Coverage](docs/coverage.svg)

An official Rust Model Context Protocol SDK implementation with tokio async runtime.

This repository contains the following crates:

- [rmcp](crates/rmcp): The core crate providing the RMCP protocol implementation - see [rmcp](crates/rmcp/README.md)
- [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros): A procedural macro crate for generating RMCP tool implementations - see [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros/README.md)

## Usage

### Import the crate

```toml
rmcp = { version = "0.8.0", features = ["server"] }
## or dev channel
rmcp = { git = "https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk", branch = "main" }
```
### Third Dependencies

Basic dependencies:
- [tokio](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tokio)
- [serde](https://github.com/serde-rs/serde)
Json Schema generation (version 2020-12):
- [schemars](https://github.com/GREsau/schemars)

### Build a Client

<details>
<summary>Start a client</summary>

```rust, ignore
use rmcp::{ServiceExt, transport::{TokioChildProcess, ConfigureCommandExt}};
use tokio::process::Command;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let client = ().serve(TokioChildProcess::new(Command::new("npx").configure(|cmd| {
        cmd.arg("-y").arg("@modelcontextprotocol/server-everything");
    }))?).await?;
    Ok(())
}
```
</details>

### Build a Server

<details>
<summary>Build a transport</summary>

```rust, ignore
use tokio::io::{stdin, stdout};
let transport = (stdin(), stdout());
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Build a service</summary>

You can easily build a service by using [`ServerHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/server.rs) or [`ClientHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/client.rs).

```rust, ignore
let service = common::counter::Counter::new();
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Start the server</summary>

```rust, ignore
// this call will finish the initialization process
let server = service.serve(transport).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Interact with the server</summary>

Once the server is initialized, you can send requests or notifications:

```rust, ignore
// request
let roots = server.list_roots().await?;

// or send notification
server.notify_cancelled(...).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Waiting for service shutdown</summary>

```rust, ignore
let quit_reason = server.waiting().await?;
// or cancel it
let quit_reason = server.cancel().await?;
```
</details>


## Examples

See [examples](examples/README.md).

## OAuth Support

See [Oauth_support](docs/OAUTH_SUPPORT.md) for details.

## Related Resources

- [MCP Specification](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-25)
- [Schema](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/specification/blob/main/schema/2025-11-25/schema.ts)

## Related Projects

### Extending `rmcp`

- [rmcp-actix-web](https://gitlab.com/lx-industries/rmcp-actix-web) - An `actix_web` backend for `rmcp`
- [rmcp-openapi](https://gitlab.com/lx-industries/rmcp-openapi) - Transform OpenAPI definition endpoints into MCP tools

### Built with `rmcp`

- [rustfs-mcp](https://github.com/rustfs/rustfs/tree/main/crates/mcp) - High-performance MCP server providing S3-compatible object storage operations for AI/LLM integration
- [containerd-mcp-server](https://github.com/jokemanfire/mcp-containerd) - A containerd-based MCP server implementation
- [rmcp-openapi-server](https://gitlab.com/lx-industries/rmcp-openapi/-/tree/main/crates/rmcp-openapi-server) - High-performance MCP server that exposes OpenAPI definition endpoints as MCP tools
- [nvim-mcp](https://github.com/linw1995/nvim-mcp) - A MCP server to interact with Neovim
- [terminator](https://github.com/mediar-ai/terminator) - AI-powered desktop automation MCP server with cross-platform support and >95% success rate
- [stakpak-agent](https://github.com/stakpak/agent) - Security-hardened terminal agent for DevOps with MCP over mTLS, streaming, secret tokenization, and async task management
- [video-transcriber-mcp-rs](https://github.com/nhatvu148/video-transcriber-mcp-rs) - High-performance MCP server for transcribing videos from 1000+ platforms using whisper.cpp
- [NexusCore MCP](https://github.com/sjkim1127/Nexuscore_MCP) - Advanced malware analysis & dynamic instrumentation MCP server with Frida integration and stealth unpacking capabilities
- [spreadsheet-mcp](https://github.com/PSU3D0/spreadsheet-mcp) - Token-efficient MCP server for spreadsheet analysis with automatic region detection, recalculation, screenshot, and editing support for LLM agents
- [hyper-mcp](https://github.com/hyper-mcp-rs/hyper-mcp) - A fast, secure MCP server that extends its capabilities through WebAssembly (WASM) plugins


## Development

### Tips for Contributors

See [docs/CONTRIBUTE.MD](docs/CONTRIBUTE.MD) to get some tips for contributing.

### Using Dev Container

If you want to use dev container, see [docs/DEVCONTAINER.md](docs/DEVCONTAINER.md) for instructions on using Dev Container for development.

Commit message:

docs: add rudof-mcp to MCP servers list (#645)

README.md, after:

<div align = "right">
<a href="docs/readme/README.zh-cn.md">简体中文(待更新)</a>
</div>

# RMCP
[![Crates.io Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/rmcp)](https://crates.io/crates/rmcp)
<!-- ![Release status](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg) -->
<!-- [![docs.rs](todo)](todo) -->
![Coverage](docs/coverage.svg)

An official Rust Model Context Protocol SDK implementation with tokio async runtime.

This repository contains the following crates:

- [rmcp](crates/rmcp): The core crate providing the RMCP protocol implementation - see [rmcp](crates/rmcp/README.md)
- [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros): A procedural macro crate for generating RMCP tool implementations - see [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros/README.md)

## Usage

### Import the crate

```toml
rmcp = { version = "0.8.0", features = ["server"] }
## or dev channel
rmcp = { git = "https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk", branch = "main" }
```
### Third Dependencies

Basic dependencies:
- [tokio](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tokio)
- [serde](https://github.com/serde-rs/serde)
Json Schema generation (version 2020-12):
- [schemars](https://github.com/GREsau/schemars)

### Build a Client

<details>
<summary>Start a client</summary>

```rust, ignore
use rmcp::{ServiceExt, transport::{TokioChildProcess, ConfigureCommandExt}};
use tokio::process::Command;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let client = ().serve(TokioChildProcess::new(Command::new("npx").configure(|cmd| {
        cmd.arg("-y").arg("@modelcontextprotocol/server-everything");
    }))?).await?;
    Ok(())
}
```
</details>

### Build a Server

<details>
<summary>Build a transport</summary>

```rust, ignore
use tokio::io::{stdin, stdout};
let transport = (stdin(), stdout());
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Build a service</summary>

You can easily build a service by using [`ServerHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/server.rs) or [`ClientHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/client.rs).

```rust, ignore
let service = common::counter::Counter::new();
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Start the server</summary>

```rust, ignore
// this call will finish the initialization process
let server = service.serve(transport).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Interact with the server</summary>

Once the server is initialized, you can send requests or notifications:

```rust, ignore
// request
let roots = server.list_roots().await?;

// or send notification
server.notify_cancelled(...).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Waiting for service shutdown</summary>

```rust, ignore
let quit_reason = server.waiting().await?;
// or cancel it
let quit_reason = server.cancel().await?;
```
</details>


## Examples

See [examples](examples/README.md).

## OAuth Support

See [Oauth_support](docs/OAUTH_SUPPORT.md) for details.

## Related Resources

- [MCP Specification](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-25)
- [Schema](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/specification/blob/main/schema/2025-11-25/schema.ts)

## Related Projects

### Extending `rmcp`

- [rmcp-actix-web](https://gitlab.com/lx-industries/rmcp-actix-web) - An `actix_web` backend for `rmcp`
- [rmcp-openapi](https://gitlab.com/lx-industries/rmcp-openapi) - Transform OpenAPI definition endpoints into MCP tools

### Built with `rmcp`

- [rustfs-mcp](https://github.com/rustfs/rustfs/tree/main/crates/mcp) - High-performance MCP server providing S3-compatible object storage operations for AI/LLM integration
- [containerd-mcp-server](https://github.com/jokemanfire/mcp-containerd) - A containerd-based MCP server implementation
- [rmcp-openapi-server](https://gitlab.com/lx-industries/rmcp-openapi/-/tree/main/crates/rmcp-openapi-server) - High-performance MCP server that exposes OpenAPI definition endpoints as MCP tools
- [nvim-mcp](https://github.com/linw1995/nvim-mcp) - A MCP server to interact with Neovim
- [terminator](https://github.com/mediar-ai/terminator) - AI-powered desktop automation MCP server with cross-platform support and >95% success rate
- [stakpak-agent](https://github.com/stakpak/agent) - Security-hardened terminal agent for DevOps with MCP over mTLS, streaming, secret tokenization, and async task management
- [video-transcriber-mcp-rs](https://github.com/nhatvu148/video-transcriber-mcp-rs) - High-performance MCP server for transcribing videos from 1000+ platforms using whisper.cpp
- [NexusCore MCP](https://github.com/sjkim1127/Nexuscore_MCP) - Advanced malware analysis & dynamic instrumentation MCP server with Frida integration and stealth unpacking capabilities
- [spreadsheet-mcp](https://github.com/PSU3D0/spreadsheet-mcp) - Token-efficient MCP server for spreadsheet analysis with automatic region detection, recalculation, screenshot, and editing support for LLM agents
- [hyper-mcp](https://github.com/hyper-mcp-rs/hyper-mcp) - A fast, secure MCP server that extends its capabilities through WebAssembly (WASM) plugins
- [rudof-mcp](https://github.com/rudof-project/rudof/tree/master/rudof_mcp) - RDF validation and data processing MCP server with ShEx/SHACL validation, SPARQL queries, and format conversion. Supports stdio and streamable HTTP transports with full MCP capabilities (tools, prompts, resources, logging, completions, tasks)


## Development

### Tips for Contributors

See [docs/CONTRIBUTE.MD](docs/CONTRIBUTE.MD) to get some tips for contributing.

### Using Dev Container

If you want to use dev container, see [docs/DEVCONTAINER.md](docs/DEVCONTAINER.md) for instructions on using Dev Container for development.
